---
layout: post
title:  "Dealing with conflict"
date:   2014-08-17
categories: post
---
Life could be traumatic, shocking, even terrible. We are ALL "damaged" goods, by
our experiences in it. We all get our hearts and feelings broken one way or
another. The difference lies in how we react to these inevitable events.

According to Dr. Sylvan one way to deal is shame. She states tha shame is "a
protective response to keep us connected to the group rather than wondering off
dangerously by ourselves.It has been given to us to help us survive and to
eliminate it would not be safe."

So it turns out that the way the majority of us deal with shame has been
studied. Dr. L. Nathason came up with what he calls "The Compass of Shame", with
each pole being a "scripted set of things to say to oneself and ways of behaving
towards others."

Starting from the North end of the compass, we have "Withdrawl", followed by
"Attack self", "Avoidance" and ending with "Attack Other" at the west end of the
compass.

I tend to be passive-aggressive when faced with conflict. So I would associate
myself with having a "Withdrawl" reaction to dealing with potentially shameful
experiences.

The most recent emotional conflict I experienced was Thusrday. I went to show my
grandmother a pair of eyeglasses that I just received in the mail. She
inmediately criticized them and even said their were rather "ordinary". Meaning
that they were ugly. My aunt who was present tried to intervine in my defense by
saying they looked good and added that I liked was all that mattered.

I remember walking away seemingly unaffected by grandmother's comments. Clearly
that wasn't the case because I kept thinking about it and how I wasn't going to
say anything. I was trying to talk myself of how meaningless this and that I
should just let go.

Eventually, a couple of days latter. I told of how it wasn't nice what she said.
By then unfortunately, she had forgotten or denied that she that and instead
accused of harboring stuff in my heart instead of talking to her.

I think I should've confronted her kindly right then an there when she said what
she said. That would've saved me the hearthache of harboring stuff for days
instead of just bringing it up.

I've learned that I need less passive-aggressive, more upfront with my feelings
and what I have in my mind.
